README.md, before:

# django-anonymous 

[![CI](https://github.com/krukas/django-anonymous/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/krukas/django-anonymous/actions/workflows/main.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/krukas/django-anonymous/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=BPQQ1RVKDJ)](https://codecov.io/gh/krukas/django-anonymous)
[![License: GPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/django-anonymous.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/django-anonymous)


Simple Django module to anonymize production data for safe usage on non-production environments.

## Installation

    pip install django-anonymous

## Usage

In your app create a file `anon.py`:

```python
from django_anonymous import Anonymizer, Faker, register
from .model import YourModel


@register(YourModel)
class YourModelAnonymizer(Anonymizer):
    
    # You can give any callable, Faker is a small wrapper around the `faker` library. 
    email = Faker("email", unique=True)
    
    # You can also use any static value
    first_name = "Anon"
```

Run the anonymizer

    python manage.py anonymize

## Custom QuerySet

You can set a custom QuerySet to filter out some objects

```python
from django_anonymous import Anonymizer, Faker, register
from .model import YourModel


@register(YourModel)
class YourModelAnonymizer(Anonymizer):
    email = Faker("email", unique=True)

    def get_queryset(self):
        return super().get_queryset().filter(is_staff=True)
```

## Faker seed

Default it will use the object id as seed, to generate the same data for every run.
You can disable this by overriding the `get_object_seed` and return falsy value.

```python
from django_anonymous import Anonymizer, Faker, register
from .model import YourModel


@register(YourModel)
class YourModelAnonymizer(Anonymizer):
    email = Faker("email", unique=True)

    def get_object_seed(self, obj):
        return None
```

## Settings for Anonymizer

Per Anonymizer you can set the select chunk size and update batch size.

```python
from django_anonymous import Anonymizer, Faker, register
from .model import YourModel


@register(YourModel)
class YourModelAnonymizer(Anonymizer):
    SELECT_CHUNK_SIZE = 100
    UPDATE_BATCH_SIZE = 25
    
    email = Faker("email", unique=True)
```

## Inspired by

- https://github.com/Tesorio/django-anon
- https://github.com/FactoryBoy/factory_boy

Commit message:

[FEATURE] Default don't anonymize empty field

README.md, after:

# django-anonymous 

[![CI](https://github.com/krukas/django-anonymous/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/krukas/django-anonymous/actions/workflows/main.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/krukas/django-anonymous/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=BPQQ1RVKDJ)](https://codecov.io/gh/krukas/django-anonymous)
[![License: GPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/django-anonymous.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/django-anonymous)


Simple Django module to anonymize production data for safe usage on non-production environments.

## Installation

    pip install django-anonymous

## Usage

In your app create a file `anon.py`:

```python
from django_anonymous import Anonymizer, Faker, register
from .model import YourModel


@register(YourModel)
class YourModelAnonymizer(Anonymizer):
    
    # You can give any callable, Faker is a small wrapper around the `faker` library. 
    email = Faker("email", unique=True)
    
    # You can also use any static value
    first_name = "Anon"
```

Run the anonymizer

    python manage.py anonymize

## Custom QuerySet

You can set a custom QuerySet to filter out some objects

```python
from django_anonymous import Anonymizer, Faker, register
from .model import YourModel


@register(YourModel)
class YourModelAnonymizer(Anonymizer):
    email = Faker("email", unique=True)

    def get_queryset(self):
        return super().get_queryset().filter(is_staff=True)
```

## Faker seed

Default it will use the object id as seed, to generate the same data for every run.
You can disable this by overriding the `get_object_seed` and return falsy value.

```python
from django_anonymous import Anonymizer, Faker, register
from .model import YourModel


@register(YourModel)
class YourModelAnonymizer(Anonymizer):
    email = Faker("email", unique=True)

    def get_object_seed(self, obj):
        return None
```

## Settings for Anonymizer

Per Anonymizer you can set the select chunk size and update batch size.
Default it will not anonymize a field that has no value.

```python
from django_anonymous import Anonymizer, Faker, register
from .model import YourModel


@register(YourModel)
class YourModelAnonymizer(Anonymizer):
    SELECT_CHUNK_SIZE = 100
    UPDATE_BATCH_SIZE = 25
    ANONYMIZE_EMPTY_FIELD = False
    
    email = Faker("email", unique=True)
```

## Inspired by

- https://github.com/Tesorio/django-anon
- https://github.com/FactoryBoy/factory_boy
